the sun's heat and the power to
evaporate water has had a profound
effect on the bodies and habits of
everything that lives here this Sun
potentially is a killer and the red
kangaroos must acknowledge that right
now while the Sun is low there's no
immediate cause for concern but this
situation went last long Australia is
the world's most arid continent with
blistering daytime temperatures
every hour the temperature rises by 5
degrees centigrade
soon the heat will reach a critical
point
any kangaroo out in the open is in
serious danger of overheating
[Music]
in the full Sun the temperature on the
ground soars to 70 degrees
by midday the radiation is so intense
they must take shelter
[Music]
in the shade they're shielded for much
of the sun's energy but their body
temperature can still rise so they lick
saliva onto their forearms where there
is the network of blood vessels close to
the surface of the skin and as the
saliva evaporates their blood is cooled
this thermal image shows just how
effective the process is the blue areas
on the body are the cooler parts as the
saliva dries it has to be replaced and
this is a real drain on the Kangaroos
body pivots even in the shade the earth
is baking hot so the Kangaroos dig away
the warmed topsoil to get at the cooler
ground beneath
by staying in the shade and licking to
control their body temperature
kangaroos manage to get through the
hottest part of the day without
heatstroke but for the majority of
desert animals this strategy would not
be enough for survival